Business Questions Addressed:

To calculate the total amount each customer spent on Zomato, we can join the 'sales' and 'product' tables to get the product prices and sum the amounts for each customer.

To determine the number of days each customer visited Zomato, we can calculate the difference between the first and last visit dates for each customer from the 'sales' table.

To identify the first product purchased by each customer, we can sort the 'sales' table by the 'created_date' column for each customer and retrieve the product with the earliest date.

To find the most purchased item on the menu and the number of times it was purchased by all customers, we can aggregate the sales data by product ID and count the occurrences for each product.

To determine the most popular item for each customer, we can group the sales data by customer and product and count the occurrences of each product for each customer.

To identify the item purchased first by a customer after becoming a member, we can filter the sales data for each customer where the 'created_date' is after their 'gold_signup_date' and retrieve the product with the earliest date.

To find the item purchased just before a customer became a member, we can filter the sales data for each customer where the 'created_date' is before their 'gold_signup_date' and retrieve the product with the latest date.

To calculate the total orders and amount spent for each member before they became a member, we can filter the sales data for each customer where the 'created_date' is before their 'gold_signup_date' and aggregate the orders and amounts.

To calculate the points collected by each customer based on product purchases, we can multiply the price of each product by the corresponding purchasing points and sum them for each customer. We can also determine the product that generated the most points by comparing the calculated points for each product.

To determine who earned more points in the first year after joining the gold program, we need to filter the sales data for each customer within the first year from their 'gold_signup_date' and calculate the points earned based on the amount spent. We can compare the total points earned for customers 1 and 3, considering that 1 Zomato point equals 2 Rs.

To rank all transactions of the customers, we can assign a rank to each transaction based on the 'created_date' column for all customers.

To rank all transactions for each member when they are Zomato Gold members, we can assign a rank to each transaction based on the 'created_date' column only for the transactions of Gold members. For non-Gold member transactions, we can mark the rank as "NA."